SOP and Coldmailing  Your ultimate guide to research interships  by Sreehari and Charu About Me  Sreehari Krishnan  4th year ECE student at NITK  Research Interests - 5g Communication and  Embedded IoT Networks  IISc Internship at the end of 2nd year  MITACS   Globalink   Research   Internship(On   site:  Barrie, Canada) at the end of 3rd year Your complete guide  to SOP writing What is a SOP?  A Statement of Purpose (SOP) is a key component in applications form  internships.  It is a description, in a few paragraphs, of why you chose the particular program  and what makes you the ideal candidate for it. Where are SOPs required?  In general, for applying to an internship, a program would offer a set of  projects, and you would need to write a common SOP for all the projects you  select, keeping the target professors in mind.  The application to the program may require a single SOP, or there could be  multiple sections in the application where you need to provide each portion  separately. Guidelines to write a SOP  Start by listing down your work, including internships, research projects, relevant  courses, extracurricular activities such as clubs, and achievements.  Begin drafting the SOP by introducing yourself and your interests.  Then, briefly summarize your work and explain why you are a strong fit for the  projects you have chosen.  Mention your achievements if required.  At the end, conclude by reiterating your interest in the program. Tips  SOP is not a description of your academic life. Make sure the points are relevant  and do not explain non essential things.  Most SOPs have a word limit. Draft your SOP to include the maximum number of  relevant points within that limit.  Do not make grammatical or spelling errors. Go through the draft multiple times  to avoid such mistakes Example: My MITACS SOP Another Example: My NTU GCF SOP About Me  Charu Shah  4th year EEE student at NITK  Research Interest - Signal Processing, Machine  Learning and its Biomedical Applications  IISc Internship after 2nd year and published a paper  NTU   Singapore   Internship   remote   for   6   months  through coldmail Your complete guide  to Coldmailing What is it? Who to mail?  If you find any paper interesting, so mail that professor to work on it  OR  Go through university websites and find labs or professors whose work  aligns with yours  Then make an excel sheet like this to stay organised  Now you can   mail merge   or send them personally Give your introduction  Tell about what got you interested in their work  What to mail?  End with how you will benefit and learn from this internship  and how will you contribute to the lab’s progress  Talk about your projects and how they align with their work  Specify when you will join and how long Send followup mail after 2 weeks  Important Tips  Don’t attach resume, use link  Have a captivating subject  eg. Internship Application in Hale Lab OR  Physics Olympiad Topper looking for Robotics internship  Send mail using edu id  Start sending mails as soon as you  can, preferably from August if you  want to intern in summer Mostly unpaid  I mailed ~100 profs, then got 4 replies  6 months increases chances  Things to Note:  Mail profs where seniors have worked  After this, you may have an interview  Schedule the email to be sent early  Monday morning in the professor's time  zone; don’t mail during their holidays Thank you  for listening!  Any questions?  Please feel free to contact us:  Sreehari: 7259628590  Charu: 8799971934 
please chal ja bhai